We're talking.
Okay.
To Linda.
Nice buck.
Congratulations on your buck.
Thank you.
Did you undertake this as a form of exorcism for you?
No, no, exorcism.
I undertook it as a process of integration, I'd have to say.
In fact, I am sitting in that cubicle there.
writing, I was on my way.
I was walking down on Wealth Avenue and thinking about these very disparate experiences I had in my life, which were ten years apart.
And that was my debut in something called The Pops, and my entering a center for trauma and dissociation to try to get help for the trauma in my life.
And I thought, really, the biggest work in my personal life and in a literary sense, for both a creative sense, for both my music and my writing, is how to weave these narratives together somehow.
And I had thought of beginning in 1982 and writing through 1992, but I realized that that part of the discipline of the memoir is what you keep out, what you decide to put in and what you decide to leave out.
And I decided that these two narrative streams of 1982 and 1992, which were such epic years in my life, would work both as a contrast and as a kind of ultimate weaving together.
The other thing I did was, as a musician, because I wasn't writing in straight chronological form,
And I couldn't find a literary form.
I tried to find a musical form for what I was doing.
And the notes that you see on the cover there are from Beethoven's Sonata, Op.
109.
And the opening movement of that sonata is really a kind of loose basis for the form of the book.
And there are two sections in that opening movement.
One is very fast, and one is very slow and kind of tragic.
And the fast one kind of goes briskly by.
So you have seven measures of time, which go by like that, in maybe 10 seconds.
And then you have this adagio, which interrupts
And it's tragic and takes seven measures, then take three times as long to get to it.
So you have a real plane of time going on, and a plane of pothos versus, you know, kind of, um, buoyant, much more buoyant passage of music.
And I thought that really, the 82 passage was best represented by the vivace.
The time went by more quickly.
You'll see the, you know, just about the vivace.
V-I-V-A-C-E.
It's in the book also, too.
But it,
What happens is time moves more quickly, and in the book, the 1982 section, it goes from April 1982 until July 1983 when my brother dies, or my second brother, and then the 1992 section is much more contemplative and slowed down, and you're only having one month of time, which is the month that I was with the parents, and then they're getting help.
So the playing with time is very similar to the way they time plays with time in the music.
And did you see those moments when you're walking down the street?
Ah, yes.
I was walking down the street and thinking, how in the world I attempted to write a novel, and
Thank God that I had the practice of writing a whole book before doing this one.
Trying to fictionalize my story didn't really work.
I got further away from the emotional traits instead of closer to those.
Why did you want to fictionalize them?
A little fear about exposing yourself to the world.
Wanting to expose the emotional traits, but not wanting to expose the world characters.
And also just the imaginative fancy of trying to make myself into something else.
I was a painter instead of a musician, and I had one sibling guy instead of two, so it was a little less tragic.
However, any of your novelists who have captured, you're still exposing yourself to the war.
Absolutely.
You're probably even clearly more naked than just letting it all hang out.
Yeah, absolutely.
In fact, it was very naked, but it was also a beginning book, and it lacked the cultures in this, I think, the inner sleep cells, it lacked that one.
a structure to come together.
Were you able to imagine it through any professional experience?
I was able to, but imaginatively went too far from my own story, and I ended up getting into a kind of, almost, an argument with myself about the imagined characters versus what really happened.
And I realized that in order to write a good novel for me,
I was going to have to write a memoir first that really did tell the truth of my story.
Well, this walk I was trying to tell you about was from my therapist's office over Marlboro Street to the writer's room.
And I had crossed a little piece of sidewalk where the silence you've worked out was written.
You know, that's the kind of warning about AIDS.
And I thought about how my father had tried to buy my silence with the piano.
And I thought, how can I integrate my music and my writing and my life on stage with, you know, the very sad life of trying to, you know, get help and work things well in.
And this narrative, as I was walking, started to emerge of rehearsal, rehearsal, practice, audition, audition, John Williams, backstage and tape, it's over in Denver, rehearsal.
this wonderful, you know, non-class fancy for the ball rehearsal on a dusty old upright piano, you know, in the cafeteria at the center.
And he's kind of from parallel there, and it's starting to go, and as you can see, it's one of the real chapters in the book.
And that's the first thing I wrote.
And then I, I don't know if this should be, maybe this should be off the record at that time.
I wrote Kate Medina through Elizabeth Berg, and she actually seen it.
That's 14 pages of parallel marriage.
And said, this is wonderful.
Can it be a book?
And I thought, well, I don't know.
And that case is lovely.
She's a wonderful woman.
And all of a sudden, I'll go on.
This won't be my piece, by the way.
No, thank you.
My publisher was good.
But I know you have six versions of Random House.
I guess it would stop.
They canceled me.
That does not have to be my kid.
Just for yourself.
I just told her.
Okay.
So she was going to have a draft.
I think that's the Friend.
Yeah.
And... I don't care.
If this is going to publish his weekly piece, that would have been a day after 30.
No.
We really have to.
Exactly.
This is the kind of thing they want.
Oh, I see what you think.
No, no, I mean, just in the other way, I'm probably really pressing for this.
Yeah.
Because this is... And I publish it.
Well, anyway.
So I came with me asking Kevin Spearback at LA.
I accepted the challenge, and...
I just took a sabbatical from the writer's room, and went home, and I had to bring in the piano for this, because I knew that Halston area was going to be straight out of the music.
And so I could bring in the piano, playing at the theater, and then turning the score and running up to the computer, plopping it down, and everything.
So this thing really formulated itself at the theater?
Absolutely.
That's a piano operator.
Did you actually see the keyboard?
It has a keyboard.
It is a keyboard.
A secondary keyboard.
I mean, the piano is my primary keyboard in a lot of the narratives.
Well, you see, I used to spend hours practicing with a notebook.
So that if I were to stop it, I would write down the distractions and then go to work.
Now, you see, if I were to work to pass it, yes, they would.
His father spoke.
I would have guessed it would have developed a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new, a new,
You love this piece, and somebody contacts her, and so I said, what?
No, no, no.
That's not what happened at all.
It came into your big contact series as a result of the first column.
Really?
And she said, you have a book in there.
And I don't know, which... Well, so we can't do anything to follow up with her.
Yeah, it's true.
So we can't do something.
Well, no, I know.
That's actually good.
Yeah, it did.
Yeah, but it's of her interest.
You're absolutely right about that.
But... No, I didn't know about that.
Absolutely.
That's how it happened.
But what I mean, though, in terms of looking at the writer and the creative process,
is that the Hearst College Fund was by nature a very compelling piece.
There was nothing about the family violence.
It's straining to tell, but it's straining to somehow get the secret out of it.
You know, Judith and the beginning of trauma and recovery wrote something.
It's so true.
Every trauma survivor has to deal with
dialectic of tell.
You feel those things in equal measure.
You feel such a need to tell.
And yet, in your experience, it's pushing me to tell.
And your experience with the threats that your father gave you, or the threats of the world, threats against telling.
And you feel a tension of a measure.
And that same tension was what I struggled with to get the Harris call on that, and that same tension
also is what a struggle with Peter Blossom.
How about the Grace column?
I was in the writer's group that I wrote, and the rest of the group that I acknowledged in the book, and they were in Boston as they were in Boston, and I had come back from the Denver Center, joined the professor of the artist group, and within a week of my retirement, I stayed with a box for my parents, which contained with lingerie, as it was.
And I really wrote the piece.
to get that out of me.
I mean to just practice what I was going to do with that.
And really the ending of the piece is that all five of us went and said back to my parents.
Came while I was writing the piece.
I was writing the piece to kind of figure out how to deal with it.
So it was really that one was really trying to write my way out of a very painful situation.
When I finished the piece and then went to my writer's script, Sally Brady, who is also major, under one degree,
That hair looks like this is a very calm.
You know, let me send it somewhere across.
Well, I'm not ready.
Let me sit like that so I sat on with it for about three months.
Trying to decide when I write it to write something private, you know, or less.
You know, sometimes you write peaches for yourself.
Sometimes you write peaches, which, you know, this was an exceedingly private peaches.
Right.
What I'm saying is I wrote a piece to myself.
I wrote a lot of other essays that have been published.
I guess when I had written so much stuff in a few people, I had just a different month.
Am I right?
Oh, you wrote to the writer's book?
Yeah.
And I'm very kind of private.
I'm not trying enough.
So it's a safe place to try.
And then I thought, no, this is a student.
I said, oh, I'm going to take the rest.
And I said, here it is.
and left out the second page and said, oh my god, another business, fantastic writing, but I'm not paying, please send that second page.
So, I think it was 1,500 words.
The first column, she doesn't know.
Oh, gosh.
Well, we're important enough.
Yes, I can.
No, thank you.
Well, you know, I think about school when I was there.
Yes, I am.
You know, I can't do it.
I can't do it.
Yeah.
Well, if it wasn't that you had, it was my fault.
I can't do it.
Well then, at the time, we had a first phone at about, you know, they were doing, you know, one, two pages, and I think she describes, you know, only one day.
So this is 93.
93.
And so then, making another request.
I met her in April 94, and I had written the slides that began memory slips, and that's what she had committed for.
So she was, of course, the first publisher.
Oh, but when did you come to?
And I had a proposal, and I was like, did you write about it?
No, we sent her, I think the first night, and she loved it.
It was me.
It was a couple of luckers, but at the time we're taking, well, I don't know, it's a book check.
But Captain Hampton, it's not that we had a lot, it was too close, and a lot of the ministers died, I don't know.
Um, so we turned it on.
I planned it ultimately, and let's use it as a formula in the script.
But yeah, I'll tell you what.
I didn't want to say it.
Happened through every month, but really, I needed to just take this away.
I finally got it sad, because I won't be in the script.
That's all why I was in the closet.
And I was just telling where there was 18,000 modifications.
Oh, wow.
$60,000 went up.
Wow.
And I was like, oh, no, really?
Yeah.
At first, I don't like that.
You do?
That turtle at her phone
The class musician's greatest player, which is all known as well.
So what came to what writers are still about writers?
You get up on the house, you're in the middle of the piece, maybe you're playing a board for sure, and oh my god, what happens to every course of this one who can get an hour for a minute, that I would have to work in a lot of cases in the law class and all that.
Well, they learn the art as part of your training.
It's part of... You learn how to get well about membership.
And that's what you need for me.
On stage, in the very beginning, they talk about how I'm going.
I only had a memory of my name, but I had a foot still.
And I still had a piece of memories in the house.
And when I was a sister, I had a past year who was young.
And I was in the beginning, I mean, they helped me out a period of flooding and trees of memories.
And I couldn't go back through the rest of the conference, seven minutes left, but I thought, I'm not going to afford a medical conference in Florida.
So I'm not going to watch.
I'm not at the house because it's not in me.
So I took, it was seven years before I got to write the type of life I had on the French library and had some memories of the cell phone.
Actually, it's summer.
It's summer.
All right.
It's real.
I don't know.
Oh, what?
What conversations are you for, Joseph?
He used to escape the failure.
I have a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend who has a friend
.
As far as the early memories, you know, it's not as if for me they suddenly emerged out of nowhere.
I mean, I had never forgotten the beating.
My brother David was hospitalized before his suicide.
He himself was having a lot of memories of the beatings and the time in Baltimore that was the worst for us.
And my father was denying them that those things had happened.
And I was trying to say to my brother, you're not hallucinating.
Those are not hallucinations, those are memories.
I remember those things too.
You were there, Paul was there, I was there.
And then there were lots of things that happened in the present that were undeniable.
My father's still French kiss.
through my 20s and 30s.
I mean, that was not something that had to be reconstructed.
That's not an hallucination.
No, no.
But so, you know, it's certainly connected with the oral rape from when I was very, very young, but it's not as if it came out of nowhere and suddenly just emerged.
I don't know how memory works for some people, but I know the traumatic memory, unfortunately,
re-emerges in in your body first i mean you may be in an intimate moment with a lover and you feel touched a certain way and suddenly your body seizes up and you don't understand what's wrong or you know and then the pieces kind of begin coming together um i mean i think we all experience things like that it could be the smell of something absolutely that evokes a memory of 30 years ago or whatever yeah or sound or a song you know absolutely yeah
And I think some people say, well, how can you remember back to that age?
You know, it's not that I only remember traumatic memories from two and a half or three.
I remember the smell of the salt and pepper shaker I used to play with that was in this little donkey that I used to scoot around on the floor.
I mean, so it's not as if it's just isolated things.
It is fragmented memory.
I mean, in a way that children, I think, have a very present-oriented sense of time.
You know, when you tell a child Christmas or Hanukkah is,
You know, a month away they'll wake up and say, is it Hanukkah yet?
Is it Christmas yet?
You know, you're in the moment.
And so fear for a child works in the same way.
I mean, I knew that Saturday was the day that a lot of bad things happened.
You know, my brothers were beaten.
I was sometimes beaten.
I was sometimes molested.
So every Saturday my fear went up.
Now, I can't tell you that every Saturday it happened, but I can tell you that every Saturday I was afraid.
And how do you feel about Saturdays now?
I still have a hard time on Saturdays.
I have to be...
plan nice things for myself.
I have to not watch movies that are too dark.
And of course, the therapy was essential to this whole... Absolutely, absolutely.
Where would you be now without it, do you think?
I mean, certainly suicide or something.
Dead?
Probably dead.
I, you know, made two very serious suicide times.
And I think, in the same way that I think therapy and being able to tell my story to someone who would listen,
to listen and understand trauma was what saved me.
Also friendships, being able to connect to people.
But I also think it would have saved my brothers.
I think that my brother David, we had already been through one suicide.
My brother Paul had died.
The fact that when my brother David was in the hospital and the psychiatrist asked my father, has there ever been any trauma in your family?
He said no.
His need to present things, to present a false narrative
of a picture-perfect family was so great that he couldn't even save his second son.
He desperately needed to talk about what he's doing after.
Well, you say here that, you know, I forget who it was who told you, there are no such things as accidents.
I had a therapist tell me that, and there were my brothers.
I think I agree with that.
You do, yeah.
Well, I mean, if something falls on my head on the street, I mean, that's an accident.
I have no control over it.
Right.
But if I continually walk under a place where there's scaffolding and maybe I'm inviting, you know, who knows?
Yeah.
I don't know, but I think there's a lot of truth to that.
I think to be that simplistic with it.
Yeah, yeah.
He certainly was crying out for something.
He was crying out for help in a very big way.
He was challenging that with the speed.
Absolutely, absolutely.
I did the same thing.
I know it well.
I know that behavior well.
And I think, I don't know, I think the sad thing for me today is my father, who's in his 70s, has lost two sons to suicide, almost lost a daughter.
We're not in contact at all.
And he still hangs on to his story.
Everything is fine.
We had a wonderful, happy childhood.
These things were just flukes that happened.
So you don't know whether or not this book has reached that?
No, I do know it reached them.
In December, early December, I sent my mother a proof, an advanced galley, because I wanted to make sure that they had read it before it came out.
I thought it was immoral.
publish this if it's so much about them and not give them a chance to release and see it.
And I also told them that the Today Show would be happening and gave them time to prepare for that and so forth.
In the Today Show, they did contact my parents and my father asked them to film him preaching in his church.
And his church said, no, we don't want to be any part of this.
This could be scandalous for the denomination for the church.
He said, well, then I'll only be interviewed on a condition that I can have someone from the False Memory Syndrome Foundation sitting by my side for the interview, and NBC said no.
So you expect that this is going to be the formal response?
Oh, I know the formal response, which will be that I'm experiencing false memories, and that this is all.
And that you're blaming your father for the deaths of your brothers.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The interesting thing is that over the last six years, my father himself has blamed various people.
At first, he blamed the therapist that these ideas were put into my head, when in fact I wasn't even in therapy when the intrusive memories began.
Second, he blamed a church janitor, which really went against my own memory of being helped by a very kind church janitor in Baltimore when I was very little.
Then he blamed a babysitter, and as recently as a year ago, sent me a letter saying,
this is who you should be going after.
And named the babysitter, said you should deposition him, you should prosecute, etc., etc.
And my husband said, you know, if your father truly believes that this babysitter did this to you, why didn't he walk you years ago?
Where was he?
Who do you think is the reader for this book?
I have a hopeful reader.
My most hopeful reader is other survivors.
who are struggling with their own ability to stay in life.
I mean, maybe that's a wish to save in a way that I couldn't save my brothers.
I mean, sometimes I think a book can be as much community or company or a light in darkness as a person.
And sometimes someone who's feeling great shame and aloneness will turn to a book before they turn to a person.
And I'm hoping maybe they'll turn to the book and then turn to someone for help.
Do you expect to talk to your father again?
I don't expect to.
I feel sad about that.
But as long as his position remains, none of this happens.
I feel invisible.
I wonder what the reaction of the church is.
I don't know.
That's a good question.
I'm glad that they refused to support him by having him videotaped.
Because I think as a little kid, I often felt that the church was sort of
with my father and the things he'd done to us because some of them took place in the church.
You also mentioned that you're curious of being a drunk user in the church.
Absolutely.
From the pulpit.
Cigarette tapers in the car.
Yes.
So we've already had, he's already exposed me, you know, in many, many ways from the pulpit, which is sad.
So what kind of feelings do you have for your father?
I still love him.
I think there's still a very childlike part of me.
that wishes he would take responsibility for what he'd done and try to make peace with his family and peace with his dead sons and peace with his God somehow.
Because you mentioned when you were playing, I mean, recently, in the last 10 or 15 minutes, you're still trying, you're still aiming for his approbation, I guess, his approval.
That mattered to you, I guess.
It did matter.
And I think what's been so difficult about the piano is that here was this thing given to me
to bargain for my silence on the one hand, but it was also what saved my life.
And the music was really what saved me, I think, through my whole growing up.
And the audio.
And I got to play the music.
That's great.
So I got to play the music I chose, and I got to read.
And it was just really wonderful.
Well, I'm looking forward to it.
What's the total running time on this, I wonder?
A little under three hours.
It's today, 22.
I was right.